# Screen Capture Community Group Meeting 2023-02-16

Notes (mostly) taken by Mark Foltz.

### Resources
[2023-02-16 slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12rkZiPoOSz8jRsVpT2O5JKPowcByo1O5dL4sJQjYgKQ/edit?usp=sharing)

### Participants
Adam Jaggard (Mux)  
Andreas Bovens (Whereby)  
Andy Wu (Cisco)  
Anssi Kostianen (Intel)  
Arnaud Budkiewicz (DialPad)  
Bernard Aboba (Microsoft)  
Christopher DuBois (Cisco)  
Elad Alon (Google)  
Francois Beaufort (Google)  
Guido Urdaneta (Google)  
Fredrik Solenberg (Google)  
Harald Alvestrand (Google)  
Havar Fosstveit (Whereby)  
Jordan Bayles (Google)  
Laurent Denoue (Google)  
Mark Foltz (Google)  
Markus Handell (Google)  
Matthew Clare (Google)  
Michiel Westerbeek (Tella)  
Nicole Walsh (Google)  
Nils Ohlmeier (8x8)  
Philipp Hancke (Microsoft)  
Pranav Mulgund (Zoom)  
Rui Zhan (Zoom)  
Simon Hangl (Google)  

### Introduction
EA: Thanks everyone for coming.  
…Screen Capture is key for presentations, video conferencing, recording, client-side rendering, remote desktop  
…APIs are missing.  Things we can’t do and opportunities yet to be realized.  
…Partial capture, capture part of the DOM or the screen.  
…Annotations  
…Collaboration between capturer and capturee, including remote control of the captured tab  
…Introductions.  I’m Elad at Google.   Working on Capture Handle.  
HA: I’m chair of the WebRTC working group.  Capture work spawned off of it.  
AJ: Representing Mux, frontend work live from the browser.  
ABV: Work at Verbi as a product manager.  Here to learn more.  
AK: Second Screen Working Group co-chair, use cases have connections with second screen APIs.  
…Happy to see key contributors on the call.  Looking forward to working together.  
ABK: Talk about use cases in the call center industry around screen capture.  
BA: Co-Chair with Harald of the WebRTC working group.  Interested in codecs for screen capture.  
SH: At Google, working on APIs   
FB: Working at Google on developer relations.  Love to write about Web stuff.  
FS: Managing WebRTC developers at Google.  
GU: At Google, work on WebRTC APIs with Fredrik, Elad, Harald.  
HF: Full stack engineer with a focus on WebRTC.  
LD: Software engineer at Android working on Web APIs.  
MF: Collaborate on Second Screen APIs, work on capture implementations.  
MH: Google, team lead for performance for Google Meet.  
MC:   
NO: Work on Jitsi at 8by8. Worked on Firefox.  
PH: SWE at Microsoft on Teams Web.  
PM: Product manager at Zoom on Web client.  
RZ: Tech lead in video team, including screen share.  

### Element Capture
Elad Alon

EA: Sample use case, two apps in same tab.  Docs on the left side, meet on the right side.  
…Applications are cross-origin.  
…Participants may join from other applications.  Want to present back to them, without videos.  
…Limit capture to a region on the page.  Take an element on the page, use it as input to crop capture to that element.  
…Drawbacks for region capture are occluded and occluding content.  
…Could be sharing, there is a drop-down list that appears in the capture.  
…Private data (e.g. messages) could appear in the captured region.  
…Instead, crop based on an element and the descendants of that element in the DOM.  
…With element level capture, you get that element descendants but nothing else.  
…Multiple problems with element.captureStream().  
…Cross-origin content is unsupported.  
…Supporting it would require cross-origin isolation, opt-in by embedded content, and user prompt  
…Proposal instead: Add an option to exclude occlusions with region capture.  
…Re-uses prompt for region capture, does not require cross-origin isolation.  
…Can crop even captures of other tabs.  
…User is giving permission to capture the entire tab.  
…Audio is out of scope for now.  
HA: Some security implications, if content is offscreen or invisible.  
…Perhaps yes, if the element is video, you don’t want the video to stop.  
EA: When the user is consenting to self-capture, they are consenting to capturing content that is not visible to the user (low opacity, piecemeal, etc.)  
ABK: Useful for dialpad.  How will we access third-party applications (e.g. Slides)?  No API or mechanism to access them.  
EA: If there is a crop target, you can make a business decision to set up an API between them.  
MF: Could the user agent consume crop targets to offer the users?  
EA: Only useful in cases where it’s not necessary.  
HF: Capture the crop target.  Is there the possibility to exclude part of the tree?  
EA: Better as a later extension?  

EA: Shall the SCCG adopt an initial draft of this spec and start iterating on it?  
Poll in Appendix A, resulting in 19 favors for, 0 against.

Next action - Elad will produce an initial spec draft, hosted on the group’s GitHub repo. Iteration over GH and future meetings to follow.

### Annotations 
Rui Zhang, Pranav Mlgund

RZ: Limitations: Presenter cannot do annotations on the source captured window or screen directly.  
Attendees cannot show their annotations on the source shared content in the presenter.  
RZ: P is presenting.  Someone let’s talk about this part of the screenshare.  People will just visually point as if we are drawing on the same paper.  
… P is wanting to emphasize a circle, he draws with a pen, circles, arrows, and draws action, once he is drawing that then A1, A2, A3, can see.  
…One of the attendees is attending.  
PM: High level: annotation is MS paint for video conferencing.  
RZ: In native case, you can share screen/app/window.  The limitation is that the presenter cannot paint.  
PM: In the browser, we can’t annotate on the screen or window directly.  
…Supposed to be a collaborative environment.  Not supposed to be an independent drawing board.  
…Trouble showing annotations on content outside of the browser viewport.  
…Showing annotations to other users.  
…Standardized API for drawing on source capture.  
…API for shared content controls, clear, refresh, to control annotations.  
EA: Multiple dimensions.  1. Who is annotating - the local user or a remote user? Feasibility of remote-user depends on the answer to the following second dimension -  2. Is the Web application   manipulating pixels directly, or does it ask the browser to expose this functionality to the local user? The Web application is a little scary, if the user draws less so.  3.  If you draw annotations,   are they excluded from capture?  
Multiple: Very interesting use case.  

Next action - Zoom will produce a spec proposal and present it to the group.

### Exposing Mouse Coordinates
Laurent Denoue

LD: Capturing without cursor, already available in getDisplayMedia, but not yet implemented.  
…Hard for the app to detect the cursor’s position over the captured media.  
…Cursor enhancements for mobile and accessibility  
…To generate recordings with animations.  
EA: CPU and bandwidth wasting to encode cursor movements.  
…Could stop capturing the cursor and redraw on the MediaStream receiver.  
MH: Significant savings in CPU and bandwidth.  
LD: Add an optional mouse change event with surfaceX, surfaceY.  
MW: Awesome, I want to have this in the app.  Thoughts about capturing the keyboard?  Less secure, but fits in the same idea.  
LD: Let’s stick with the special case.  
NO: Like the idea, like the idea that the mouse cursor changes into something else.  

EA: Shall the SCCG adopt an initial draft of this spec and start iterating on it?  
Poll in Appendix B, resulting in 16 votes for, 0 against.

Next action - Laurent will produce an initial spec draft, hosted on the group’s GitHub repo. Iteration over GH and future meetings to follow.

### Agent Screen Capture
Arnaud Budkiewicz

ABK: Dialpad provides AI-powered customer call center   
…With Agent Screen Capture contact center managers record agent screens during calls.  
…Provide coaching and feedback to agents.  
…Recording is taken during call and is saved to Dialpad for access to managers.  
…Only one API is not standard, desktopCapturer.getSources  
…No Web API to capture all screens without user action  
…MediaRecorder does not support AV1, HW acceleration has a negative impact  
…Pressure on upstream link (1.5 MBps/second/screen) during upload.  Looking at RTCDataChannel  
RZ: What are the limitations?  
ABK: No API to capture all the screens, and skip the picker.  
RZ: The use case is monitoring?   
ABK: One of the use cases, we capture all the screens. There is nothing for the user to select.  
RZ: Some privacy/security concerns handled by this team.  
MH: Why is hardware encoding a negative?  
ABK: The [bitstream size] is too large. This is why AV1 support in MediaRecorder would be nice to have.  
NO: The user agent could allow this in the enterprise context so that there is no user action needed.  

### Capturing All Screens
Simon Hangl

SH: Mandatory multi-screen capture in some contexts.  Financial services, government, etc.  
…Not covered by Web platforms.  Users have to manually make selections.  
…Organizations use native apps, or Electron.  
…May not inform users about capture, and limited control by administrator.  
…Web apps could be better.  
…Propose MediaDevices.getAllScreenMedia, returns a sequence of media streams.  
…Allowlisted apps.  
…Propose an extension to the WindowPlacement API to provide metadata about the screens.  
AB: Sounds like what we need.  
NO: Suggest getMediaFromAllScreens()?  
MF: What about getDisplayMedia?  
EA: Could apply constraints post-hoc with applyConstraints().  MVP without constraints.  
HA: When implementing it, it’s about whether the administrator knows what it is doing, so that it is defensible from a privacy perspective.  
ABK: Allowlisting is one strategy.  
MC: Employee signs contract, rules and governance play a role.  

EA: Shall the SCCG adopt an initial draft of this spec and start iterating on it?  
Poll in Appendix C, resulting in 11 votes for, 0 against.

Next action - Simon is already iterating on a spec in the WICG. He will polish it some more and then move it to the group’s GitHub repo. Iteration over GH and future meetings to follow.

### MessagePort for Captured Content
EA: Skipping

### Administrative Matters

EA: Let’s use GitHub for drafts.  
…Next meeting in one month, watch for polls to coordinate optimal time.  
HA: One repo per spec please.  


### Appendix A: Poll for Element Capture

Harald Alvestrand 9:35 AM  
+1  
Adam Jaggard 9:35 AM  
+1  
Arnaud Budkiewicz 9:35 AM  
+1  
Laurent Denoue 9:35 AM  
+1  
Philipp Hancke 9:35 AM  
+1  
Michiel Westerbeek 9:35 AM  
+1  
Andreas Bovens 9:35 AM  
+1  
Mark Foltz  9:35 AM  
+1  
Håvar Aambø Fosstveit 9:35 AM  
+1  
Rui Zhang 9:35 AM  
+1  
François Beaufort 9:35 AM  
+1  
Nils Ohlmeier 9:35 AM  
+1  
Guido Urdaneta 9:35 AM  
+1  
Pranav Mulgund 9:35 AM  
+1  
Jordan Bayles 9:35 AM  
+1  
Simon Hangl 9:35 AM  
+1  
Anssi Kostiainen 9:35 AM  
👍  
Elad Alon 9:36 AM  
+1  
Fredrik Solenberg 9:36 AM  
+1  

### Appendix B: Poll for Exposing Mouse Coordinates
Elad Alon 10:02 AM  
<second poll>  
+1  
Harald Alvestrand 10:02 AM  
+1  
Michiel Westerbeek 10:02 AM  
+1  
Fredrik Solenberg 10:02 AM  
+1  
Adam Jaggard 10:02 AM  
+1  
Nils Ohlmeier 10:02 AM  
+1  
Simon Hangl 10:02 AM  
+1  
Bernard Aboba 10:03 AM  
+1  
Pranav Mulgund 10:03 AM  
+1  
Arnaud Budkiewicz 10:03 AM  
+1  
François Beaufort 10:03 AM  
+1!  
Rui Zhang 10:03 AM  
+1  
Philipp Hancke 10:03 AM  
+1  
Andreas Bovens 10:03 AM  
+1  
Håvar Aambø Fosstveit 10:03 AM  
+1  
Mark Foltz  10:03 AM  
+1  

### Appendix C: Poll for Capturing All Screens
Fredrik Solenberg 10:27 AM  
+1  
Matthew Clare 10:27 AM  
+1  
Guido Urdaneta 10:27 AM  
+1  
Arnaud Budkiewicz 10:27 AM  
+1  
Simon Hangl 10:27 AM  
+1  
Harald Alvestrand 10:27 AM  
+1  
Laurent Denoue 10:27 AM  
+1  
Andreas Bovens 10:27 AM  
+1  
Elad Alon 10:27 AM  
+1  
Pranav Mulgund 10:27 AM  
+1  
Mark Foltz  10:27 AM  
+1  

