# Screen Capture Community Group Meeting 2023-06-26

Notes (mostly) taken by Harald Alvestrand.

### Resources
[2023-06-26 slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1OLivIHYOLKjsFnINq2nibBk9RtwCQjkEyIazyiFzhh0/edit?usp=sharing)  
[2023-06-26 recording](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1OW6kcQbX5XQLqJSFaDabtUJTJcRiWZU6/view?usp=sharing)  

### Participants
Andreas Bovens (Whereby)  
Arnaud Budkiewicz (Dialpad)  
Benjamin Worpitz (LogMeIn)  
Bernard Aboba (Microsoft)  
Colin Read (Cisco)  
Duanpei Wu (Zoom)  
Elad Alon (Google)  
Frank Liberato (Google)  
Frédéric Wang (Igalia)
Guido Urdaneta (Google)  
Harald Alvestrand (Google)  
Jonathan Lennox (8x8)  
Laurent Denoue (Google)  
Marcin Wojtczak (Cisco)
Mark Foltz (Google)  
Michiel Westerbeek (Tella)  
Stefan Fleiter (GoTo)  
Steve Graff (OpenText)  
Tove Petersson (Google)  

### Element Capture Follow-up, Mark Foltz

##### Slides 4-16, 
Repeat of how cropping works, and the difference to ElementCapture.  
Goes over a few difficulties in how ElementCapture needs to be isolated. 3D transforms, stacking contexts, backdrop filters are typical examples of things with issues.  
Need to choose mechanism for enforcing constraints (slide 14).  
Stefan Fleiter: applying constraints when crop target is created makes sense - early warning to developer.  
Elad Alon: we use the same crop target for both element and region capture, which makes this difficult - requires splitting the target creation function.  
Michiel Westerbeek: What should happen?  
Mark Foltz: Can't generate frames - multiple options for surfacing the error.  
Harald Alvestrand: Pausing captures when constraints are violated seems like something we have to do anyway.  
Mark Foltz: Being consistent with what we do when a crop target is removed from the DOM is good.  

##### Slide 15 - next steps
PR for documenting the constraints ins in review.  
Targeting origin trial in Q4.  
Jonathan Lennox: Broader question - privacy issue on capturing a hidden element?  
Mark Foltz: Privacy mitigations?  
Elad Alon: Malicious apps already have the power (mostly); footgun is more worrying.  

##### Slide 16 - possible future work
Signaling elements becoming non-capturable: Need developer feedback.  
More functionality(offscreen, capture from element, audio) - need to understand what the need is, and explore whether it is possible.  

### Remote Control API, Elad Alon

##### Slides 17-27

(slide 21)  
Stefan Fleiter: Is the name "remote control" a good one? Seems to imply more power than the API proposes.  
Elad Alon: Name is up for discussion.  

(slide 23)  
Frank Liberato: Question about translating coordinates in region capture?  
Elad Alon: Easier if we do self-capture, where we know element dimensions.  
Micheiel Westerbeek: Was ability to click removed?  
Elad Alon: That was part of video portal proposal - was deemed harder to specify and implement, and had some other limitations. This proposal is less ambitious.  

### Excluding PiP from screen-capture, Arnaud Budkiewicz

##### Slides 28-35
Sharing screen exposes PiP - but removing it can show surprising content  
Proposal: Make this an user control on the PiP.  
Showing mic & camera status could be controlled by developer (turn off auto-hide)  
Michiel Westerbeek: User or developer option?  
Arnaud: Default state of "hide from screenshare" should be developer controlled.  
Frank Liberato: Thinks this makes a lot of sense.  
Elad Alon: Think I'd want "exclude from capture" default-off; might be the more conservative stance.  
Frank Liberato: Could show the starting state in the permissions prompt. Would prefer not to have a Web API to control it.  
Michiel Westerbeek: Think that the web devs would want to be able to set the default.  
Stefan Fleiter: What about having a checkbox at the time of sharing the screen instead of an user control?  
Elad Alon: Experience with getting things into the media picker is that it adds up; the people permitting new checkboxes do not let much pass. Alternative: Make default sticky?  
Stefan Fleiter: less overload if only showing option if a PiP is already on the screen?  
Frank Liberato: My intuition is not to be trusted in privacy matters.  

### CapturedMouseEvent listener, Frederic Wang

##### Slides 36-41
This extension also needs CaptureController to be an EventTarget.  
Problem: Prototype creates load even when no listeners are registered.  
Two alternatives outlined in slide 41: optimize, or option on capture controller creation.  
Elad Alon: Alt 0 is "live with the inefficiency". Alt 1 means some delay between AddEventListener and events flowing. With heavy implementer-bias, likes Alt 2.  
Harald Alvestrand: Would like Alt 1 (no state in CaptureController about acceptability).  
Michiel Westerbeek: Would like Alt 1. Simpler.  
Elad Alon: For option 1, but playing devil's advocate. Could we get delay before events start flowing and frames in option 1?  
Frederic Wang: Do we need to say anything in spec if we go for option 1? Unsure; probably no observable behavior => no spec change needed.  
Elad Alon: future extensions include mouse click events - may need a permission prompt.  
Frank Liberato: Should we do something up front?  
Elad Alon: Probably not.  

### Dynamically switching between sources, Elad Alon
##### Slides 42-47
Stefan Fleiter: Backwards compatibility?  
Mark A. Foltz: How does the timing of the event correlate with the frames from old/new source?  
Stefan Fleiter: would the event be available in all cases? In particular the MacOS switching feature is likely a MacOS feature, not a Safari feature.  
Elad Alon: If we don't change the API, we are going to run into problems (like with cropTo).  
Mark Foltz: We added new features like CropTo() by different prototypes. Wouldn't that force us to switch track objects?  
Elad Alon: Even if we had the same type for all tracks, we would have the problem. The switch event allows us to know when the feature detection needs to be re-run.  
Stefan Fleiter: Detect own tab?  
Elad: CaptureHandle will allow this.  
Benjamin Worpitz: Switch for capture type changes, or also tab changes?  
Elad: All changes.  
Benjamin Worpitz: What about backwards compatibility?  
Elad Alon: UA behavior may depend on presence of event handler.  

### Administrative matters, Elad Alon
##### Slides 48-50
Elad will be at TPAC. SCCG meeting and WEBRTC/SCCG joint meeting scheduled.
https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/7e9ac176-e5f2-4f9b-b7c4-95e14c19e9d3/





