# Screen Capture Community Group Meeting 2023-03-21

### Slides
[SCCG Meeting 2023-03-21 slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1RIRPAg-M3pQYTFqL0rDGBIl8bQvLAzq122lWUF5JIy8/edit?usp=sharing)

### Participants
Alex Smelik (RingCentral)
Andy Wu (Cisco)
Andreas Bovens (Whereby)
Andy Rollo (Google)
Arnaud Budkiewicz (DialPad)
Benjamin Worpitz (GoToMeeting)
Bernard Aboba (Microsoft)
Brian Baldino (Cisco)
Christoph Guttandin
Christopher DuBois (Cisco)
Colin Read (Cisco)
Elad Alon (Google)
Francois Beaufort (Google)
Guido Urdaneta (Google)
Harald Alvestrand (Google)
Havar Fosstveit (Whereby)
Jaya Allamsetty (8x8)
Jonathan Lennox (8x8)
Mark Foltz (Google)
Matthew Clare (Google)
Michiel Westerbeek (Tella)
Philipp Hancke (Microsoft)
Pranav Mulgund (Zoom)
Simon Hangl (Google)
Stefan Fleiter (GoToMeeting)
Steve Graff (OpenText)
Usama Inam (Google)

### Introduction
EA: Proposed procedure.  Problem presented to group, initial feedback solicited, general direction has consensus.
…Spec draft produced.  Optionally, present a major outline of spec to a meeting.
…Call for consensus sent to a mailing list.
…Participants read spec at their leisure and file issues.
…Three issues: Blocking, non-blocking, proposals for extensions.
…Spec either adopted as a “first working draft” or we continue to discuss blocking issues.
…Experimental implementations in user agents.
…Previously, multiple problems/solutions presented.
MF: Is the problem/solution statement an explainer for the Blink process?
EA: Not necessarily, but whoever wants to send an intent to prototype in Blink can produce an explainer as needed.
EA: Record meetings?  \[General consensus to record meetings going forward.\]

### getAllScreensMedia, (Simon Hangl, Google)
SH: Mandatory multi-screen capture, important for compliance, government, security
…general API shape.  A function that returns a Promise that resolves to a sequence of MediaStream objects.
…example usage.  A recording of all monitors can be recorded to media on disk.
…Allows capturing all monitors.  Only callable by allowlisted web applications.  
…Informs the user, possibly before capturing can happen, and while capturing is happening.
…Two open issues.  App captures screens, takes a screenshot.
…Users may not be aware that capturing is happening.  Proposed solution is to require clear indication before capturing can happen.
SF: Security concerns.  Would expect that the user has to enable sharing of the screen, what are the security concerns when sharing all monitors?
SH: API is unlocked by the admin, the app is able to capture without user consent.
SF: Is the normal scenario, is it valuable to share multiple monitors?  Should the normal screen share dialog also allow sharing multiple screens?
SH: This could be an extension of the API.  Could be an open issue for the future.
EA: Asking about getDisplayMedia(), offer all screens as an option?
SF: Yes, we offer this in our native app, but can't do it on the Web.
JL: Feel like each case is useful without the other, could split into two separate specs.
MW: Capturing all screens with getDisplayMedia with all screens would be useful.  Separately you could add to a whitelist?  Or do you feel like they could be combined?
SH: We considered this, hard to imagine how to do this with getDisplayMedia().
HA: One clear use case, capturing all screens without user interaction.  Branching set of use cases, capturing some screens, some with and without user interaction.  Hard to keep track; solve a specific use case, then pick up additional use cases later.
EA: This use case stands on its own merit.  If other use cases for multi-capture of interest, feel free to prepare material for future meetings.

### Element Capture (Elad Alon, Google)  
EA: Recall region capture allows us to crop capture to a specific element.
…Even if the element is moved or resized.
…However, it will capture occluding content as well.
…Element capture allows capturing a subtree of the DOM.
…Call it restrictTo() - versus cropTo() for region capture.
…Extending cropTo() creates a possible footgun.
…Some concerns, possibly adding information the user can’t see.
MF: Are you looking for spec language on what will be captured?
EA: Conceptually, the spec is going to say “what would happen if this DOM subtree was rendered.”  
MF: May be worth drafting a PR with that concept and identifying fuzzy areas.

### Screen Capture Mouse Coordinates API (Michiel Westerbeek, Tella)
MW: Here for Screen Capture Mouse Events API
…Repo created, looking for feedback.
…We’d like to expose the cursor shape to the user as well.  How to expose?
…cursorId, css cursor name, SVG/bitmap
EA: With screen capture now, can scan the image to find the cursor.
…Computationally intensive.  Instead, allow capturing applications to get the cursor position.
…Could also expose the cursor shape.
MW: Change the style to make the cursor a different style.
…Would also be helpful to capture through WebRTC without cursor.
EA: Could be used to enhance cursor for a11y reasons.
JL: For the general case, you will have to fall back to generic cursor bitmaps.  For tabs, you could do the enhanced cursor.
MW: Match mouse coordinates to a specific video frame.
…Accuracy of the mouse events with the frame of the video.  They might be at different timestamps.
…Could rely on event.timeStamp to be pretty accurate.
EA: Not part of MVP, but want to add.
MW: Naming of events. “Capturedmousechange”
EA: Can ask about naming when sending a request for consensus on API.

### Video Portal (Elad Alon, Google)
EA: Video conferencing apps allow a local preview of the captured content.
…Preview is not interactive.
…Bespoke interactivity.  
…What if the user could enter “interactive mode” on the preview tile.
…App vs User.
…Allow capturing apps to see and control captured apps - risky.
…Allow local users to control their local app - safe(r).
…Propose a new API allowing an interactive <video> element.
…This video element is potentially interactive.
…Expose a button on the video, if the user clicks the button then it becomes interactive.
…It looks like the mouse is hovering over the tab.
…App can only request that the Interact button is exposed.
…The video must be fixed position (to protect against click-jacking)
…The video must be drawn on top (z-order) and 100% opaque.
…Capturing apps can’t draw misleading content over the portal.
…Minimum <video> size.
…The <video> element is associated with a capture controller, not a mediastreamtrack, so the app can’t modify the frames.
SF: Is there a spec yet?  EA: Not yet.
MW: I think it’s really cool.  Keep people in our app.  Makes it easier to start/stop recording in our app.
AB: Solves a real user need.
HF: What do you mean by move?  UI reflow?
EA: Anything the application can control, could be a risk for clickjacking.
FB: Is it possible to simulate all user gestures when capturing windows or monitors?
MF: Yes, Chrome Remote Desktop can do it, but may require elevated system permissions.
EA: I would expect it to work on tabs first, depending on priorities.
SF: Users are mostly using desktop sharing, then app sharing, then tab sharing.  Benefits for our users would be least for tab sharing.

### Screen Content Coding (Bernard Adoba, Microsoft)
\[Scribe missed about 5 minutes\]
BA: ContentHints is a property of a MediaStreamTrack.  Go beyond educated guesses and effect congestion response.
…Goal to go beyond educated guesses about frame rate vs. resolution.
…As well as encoding parameters.
…Does not appear that contentHint does anything for WebRTC.
…In WebCodecs, configuring some of the tools.
…Should the type of the content matter?
…Add quantizer support for other codecs.
…Enable all of the screen content coding tools.  Palette vs. block copy.
…HEVC has screen content coding extensions.  However these are hardware only.
…Enable configuration of AV1 screen content coding tool.
…When?  Capture most likely knows and can make a suggestion.
EA: How to deliver information.  Expose through CaptureHandle.
…Extend it to work between arbitrary applications.
…Add a dedicated place for content hints.
…Capturing applications, can get suggested content hints.
BA: How much detail in the content encoding?
MF: What if the capturer has information about the captured content, i.e. frame rate of embedded third party content.  Could it be exposed in some way, i.e. on the MediaStreamTrack?
BA: Hadn’t thought about that.  How would the capturing app choose between the two sets of hints?
MF: Needs more discussion about use cases.
AB: Is the group here thinking about optimizing for video?
BA: Is the app making a bad choice when using screen content coding tools?  Expose to users and allow them to make a choice.
AB: In the picker, allow users to optimize for video or to prioritize bitrate.  Best moment to ask.
JL: In general, for a tab, the capturing application has this information.  Not sure arbitrary websites will provide [content hints].  Having the capturing application do this, can know what is going on with the rendering.  Websites won’t be.
BA: Level of control over tools?
JL: For WebCodecs, it makes sense.  Maybe too many knobs for WebRTC?
BW: We have a checkbox to allow users to change while screen sharing.  It’s about quality and performance impact.
…We may overload the system; the default is for text and to allow the user to show something fluent if they want.
…Not sure we want the content hint.  We don’t need the app to tell us that something changed.
…Everything we want to know is on the capture side.

### Limiting Display Surfaces in Capture (Colin Read, Cisco)
CR: Three surfaces available now.  Monitor considered most dangerous.
…Problem of unintended sharing.
…Current spec has a suggestion, but people still share the entire screen.
…Can use enterprise policies.  But these are not dynamic.
…E.g. If someone external joins a meeting, can’t restrict sharing.
…Suggestion 1: Array of disabled surfaces.
SF: This should be a allowlist, is more secure.
CR: Suggestion 2: Disable only monitor.
…Suggestion 3: Overload displaySurface.
…Suggestion 4: Enable displaySurfaces (allowlist) only allowing safe options.
EA: This is useful, security would be the reason for not doing it.
…I’ve asked for unofficial feedback from security and they think it makes sense.
…One counter-argument, if you push users towards windows, they will share browser windows.
…That shares additional information.
…An allowlist could not work, it could fail for browsers, how would we detect this.
 EA: My preference would be a shape that allows what surfaces are supported by the browser. 
…If an attempt fails, then the error is understandable to the developer.
SF: We have spoken about an API that encourages the user to pick what they want.
CR: We can already pass the hint to change the ordering?
SF: For the browser versions, developers try to be respectful.  Allow Web developers to find out what is supported.
…Can have constraints that are not fulfillable.  Would love to be able to find out without asking getUserMedia.
EA: One idea.  Map display surfaces to an interface with three booleans, user agents that did not support each surface would not show it.  Chrome disables the monitor, but nothing else.
…By looking at the interface, you can set it.
CR: Makes it more possible to feature detect.

### MessagePort for Capture Handle (Elad Alon, Google)
EA: Core Proposal: Produce an API for connecting the capturer and capture.
…Could be multiple concurrent captures.
…Users might change tabs that are captured at any moment.
…Captured tabs might be navigated.
…[CaptureHandle review]
…The CaptureHandleConfig could be an interface.
…event handler to pass a MessagePort.
…Call getMessagePort() in the MediaStreamTrack.
…Checking whether it supportsMessagePort.
…CaptureHandleChangeEvent.
…[Slides with sample usage]
…More fleshed out proposals when we have time.

### Administrative Matters

EA: Join mailing list at https://w3.org/community/sccg
…Meeting in April/May
…Email presentations for next meetings to eladalon@google.com
